README.md, before:

# valheim-k8s

kubernetes deployment for a valheim game-server. Based off the dockerization work by lloesche [here](https://github.com/lloesche/valheim-server-docker).

## Usage

Note: This assumes the node you are running on can use `/data/valheim` mounted as a host volume for persistence.  

```bash
helm repo add valheim-k8s https://addyvan.github.io/valheim-k8s/
helm repo update
helm install valheim-server valheim-k8s/valheim-k8s  \
  --set worldName=example-world-name \
  --set serverName=example-server-name \
  --set password=password \
  --set storage.kind=hostvol \
  --set storage.hostvol.path=/data/valheim
```

## Configuration

| Parameter                                  | Description                                                            | Default                 |
|:-------------------------------------------|:-----------------------------------------------------------------------|:------------------------|
| `worldName`                                | Prefix of the world files to use (will make new if missing)            | `example-world-name`    |
| `serverName`                               | Server name displayed in the server browser(s)                         | `example-server-name`   |
| `password`                                 | Server password                                                        | `password`              |
| `storage.kind`                             | Storage strategy/soln used to provide the game-server with persistence | `hostvol`               |
| `storage.hostvol.path`                     | The folder to be mounted into /config in the game-server pod           | `/data/valheim`         |
| `storage.pvc.storageClassName`             | The storageClass used to create the persistentVolumeClaim              | `default`               |
| `storage.pvc.size`                         | The size of the persistent volume to be created                        | `1Gi`                   |
| `networking.serviceType`                   | The type of service e.g `NodePort`, `LoadBalancer` or `ClusterIP`      | `LoadBalancer`          |
| `nodeSelector`                             |                                                                        | `{}`                    |

## Persistence

Currently persistence is supported through mounting a `hostvol` or via a `persistentVolumeClaim`. Please create an issue if you would like support for specific cloud storage solutions via PVCs / storageclasses. They vary by provider so PRs / testers welcome for this. 

### Using a Host Volume

On the node you wish to use make sure the folder you are mounting exists (ideally empty if you are starting a new world). Once you spin up the game pod you should see the following files created:
```bash
$ ls /data/valheim
adminlist.txt  backups  bannedlist.txt  permittedlist.txt  prefs  worlds
```

### Using a persistentVolumeClaim

To use a `persistentVolumeClaim` for storage, you will need to first set up your CSI and StorageClass for your K8s cluster. Information regarding that differs by cloud provider and there are several guides available for configuring each of them.

Once you have your StorageClass set up, set `storage.kind` to `persistentVolumeClaim`, set `storage.pvc.storageClassName` to the name of your previously configured StorageClass, and optionally set `storage.pvc.size` to the size of the volume to create.

### Using an existing world

To use an existing world simply set the `worldName` parameter to the name of your world then save the `.db` and `.fwl` files to the directory mounted into the pod. For example, if your world is named `myworld` then set `worldName: myworld` in your values file (or `--set worldName=myworld`) and assuming you are mounting at `/data/valheim` then your directory should look like: 
```bash
$ ls /data/valheim/worlds/
myworld.db  myworld.fwl
```

## Connecting to your world

Assuming you have taken care of the networking (port-forwarding if needed, LoadBalancer IP is created, ...): 
* In the steam UI (NOT IN GAME) go to view->servers->add favorite
  * set the port to 2457 ([reason for that here](https://github.com/lloesche/valheim-server-docker/discussions/32#discussioncomment-371306))
* To connect double click the server in the steam servers explorer
  * You will be asked for the password in the steam ui and in game

More visual set of instructions [here](https://github.com/mbround18/valheim-docker/discussions/51)

## Potential future updates

If there is interest I can hash out the following:
* Cronjob to save backups to s3, blob storage, or minio
  * Then clear up the space in the hostvol/pvc
* More persistence options, namely for those looking to run this on the cloud
  * I'm familiar with Azure and AWS but I'm sure GCP and others will be fairly simple to figure out if we have testers

Commit message:

Make storageClass optional if a default exists

README.md, after:

# valheim-k8s

kubernetes deployment for a valheim game-server. Based off the dockerization work by lloesche [here](https://github.com/lloesche/valheim-server-docker).

## Usage

Note: This assumes the node you are running on can use `/data/valheim` mounted as a host volume for persistence.  

```bash
helm repo add valheim-k8s https://addyvan.github.io/valheim-k8s/
helm repo update
helm install valheim-server valheim-k8s/valheim-k8s  \
  --set worldName=example-world-name \
  --set serverName=example-server-name \
  --set password=password \
  --set storage.kind=hostvol \
  --set storage.hostvol.path=/data/valheim
```

## Configuration

| Parameter                                  | Description                                                            | Default                 |
|:-------------------------------------------|:-----------------------------------------------------------------------|:------------------------|
| `worldName`                                | Prefix of the world files to use (will make new if missing)            | `example-world-name`    |
| `serverName`                               | Server name displayed in the server browser(s)                         | `example-server-name`   |
| `password`                                 | Server password                                                        | `password`              |
| `storage.kind`                             | Storage strategy/soln used to provide the game-server with persistence | `hostvol`               |
| `storage.hostvol.path`                     | The folder to be mounted into /config in the game-server pod           | `/data/valheim`         |
| `storage.pvc.storageClassName`             | The storageClass used to create the persistentVolumeClaim              | `default`               |
| `storage.pvc.size`                         | The size of the persistent volume to be created                        | `1Gi`                   |
| `networking.serviceType`                   | The type of service e.g `NodePort`, `LoadBalancer` or `ClusterIP`      | `LoadBalancer`          |
| `nodeSelector`                             |                                                                        | `{}`                    |

## Persistence

Currently persistence is supported through mounting a `hostvol` or via a `persistentVolumeClaim`. Please create an issue if you would like support for specific cloud storage solutions via PVCs / storageclasses. They vary by provider so PRs / testers welcome for this. 

### Using a Host Volume

On the node you wish to use make sure the folder you are mounting exists (ideally empty if you are starting a new world). Once you spin up the game pod you should see the following files created:
```bash
$ ls /data/valheim
adminlist.txt  backups  bannedlist.txt  permittedlist.txt  prefs  worlds
```

### Using a persistentVolumeClaim

To use a `persistentVolumeClaim` for storage, you will need to first set up your CSI and StorageClass for your K8s cluster. Information regarding that differs by cloud provider and there are several guides available for configuring each of them.

Once you have your StorageClass set up, set `storage.kind` to `persistentVolumeClaim`, optionally set `storage.pvc.storageClassName` to the name of your previously configured StorageClass (or it will use the default StorageClass), and set `storage.pvc.size` to the size of the volume to create (default 1Gi).

### Using an existing world

To use an existing world simply set the `worldName` parameter to the name of your world then save the `.db` and `.fwl` files to the directory mounted into the pod. For example, if your world is named `myworld` then set `worldName: myworld` in your values file (or `--set worldName=myworld`) and assuming you are mounting at `/data/valheim` then your directory should look like: 
```bash
$ ls /data/valheim/worlds/
myworld.db  myworld.fwl
```

## Connecting to your world

Assuming you have taken care of the networking (port-forwarding if needed, LoadBalancer IP is created, ...): 
* In the steam UI (NOT IN GAME) go to view->servers->add favorite
  * set the port to 2457 ([reason for that here](https://github.com/lloesche/valheim-server-docker/discussions/32#discussioncomment-371306))
* To connect double click the server in the steam servers explorer
  * You will be asked for the password in the steam ui and in game

More visual set of instructions [here](https://github.com/mbround18/valheim-docker/discussions/51)

## Potential future updates

If there is interest I can hash out the following:
* Cronjob to save backups to s3, blob storage, or minio
  * Then clear up the space in the hostvol/pvc
* More persistence options, namely for those looking to run this on the cloud
  * I'm familiar with Azure and AWS but I'm sure GCP and others will be fairly simple to figure out if we have testers
